# WDIR-Project-1-WAR
project one for web development immersive remote program, making the card game war


I approached this assignment in chunks. I went from the cards to the hands to the compare to the won cards to the tie and the winning cases. 

 On the first day, when the requirements were given to us I had already assumed that we might be making a game and was already in the process of thinking about the card game war.

The card game war involves two players who both start with a randomly shuffled half of the deck. For this I had started with a math random function. I was going to use a constructor to create the deck but I wanted to incorporate the card images as a property of card object so I wrote the entire deck array out. I created a math random to shuffle the cards and then put them into the hands but discovered that my function was making repeat cards so, as Abi suggested, I used the Fisher Yates Shuffle, a commonly used randomizing function that takes all parts of an array into account and will not repeat items in the result.

Using my wire frames I determined that I would need a starting page and a page for the two hands, I did this by implementing the dynamic creation of html elements within jquery. I then went about attaching the hand arrays to the two new elements so that they would get cycled through when clicked. Abi helped me figure out why my onclicks were not working, they were not grabbing the newly created divs and I had to implement the onclick functionality when they were created in my deck splitting function. Once I determined that all the elements were showing up properly and that the card images were showing when I clicked on the cards I went about defining the comparisons.

In the game of war two cards are shown, one for each player, the player with the higher value card wins the hand and gets to take both cards. To make this work I had assigned all my cards values as a property. The order went A<2<3<4<5<6<7<8<9<10<J<Q<K, aces are a one in my game. When the hand was clicked the image would show, only after the second players hand was clicked (the right deck) would the cards be compared. To give the cards to the player with the higher value I chose to put them into a new array of won cards. This allowed me to count the cards after a player was out of cards in their hand and determine a round winner, and to pull the cards into the hand if it was empty so the game could continue. I also needed to tackle the war scenario which is when the cards have matching values. To do this I put the matching value cards into their own tie card array and let the comparison keep going, if in the next draw after the tie a player had a higher value card than another they would win the tie cards and that hand. I started solving this by giving all the tie cards to the winner of the round but switched it with Hanna's suggestion of doing it each hand, which more accurately represents the real game. When I started doing this I had assumed that the hands would always be empty at the end of a round (determined that a round is when someone is out of cards) which was making me lose cards each round. That, and my tie function, which assumed that there would only be two tied cards in the tie card array at once, was also losing me cards.

Abi and Kaylie helped me resolve this with for loops and lots of console logging. The next issue to address was that if player two won the first round there would be an issue in the second round, the hand would not replenish so the game would stop. We couldn't figure out why because everything was console logging correctly and when player one won the first round . I sought help from Kristyn who quickly helped me see that my check for whether or not the hands were empty needed to happen before the script looked for an image or value. With it the way it was the code was looking for the next cards before determining that there were none and the replenish wasn't functioning.

With all these issues resolved I was able to move forward and get a functioning game. I played around with making a check for a players turn, so that a player could only click and get a card if it was their turn but struggled with implementing this, I also wanted to make the two new divs start with the same back of the card image as the initial deck but wasn't able to make this work properly, instead it was just overlaying the card images on the deck back image, I wanted to start with the deck back image and then when the hands were clicked they would "flip" and the card images would show on a ivory background color.

I added a restart button with the text begin again, and a button called reshuffle that would shuffle the players hands just for an extra bit of fun. The reshuffle implements the Fisher Yates Shuffle and reorganizes the players hands as they are, it does not swap players hands with each other though that could be a fun approach to add in.

If I had the time I would have liked to figure out how to ask the players for their names and show them above the hands, and to even allow the option between playing against a computer or a friend. I also would have liked to have been able to show the tie cards accurately by making more cards appear when there was a tie. In the real game, when there is a tie, the players can either draw two more cards to compare or draw four cards face down and flip the last one, these last two cards that are flipped are compared and the player with the higher one gets all ten cards (the two tie cards and the four newly drawn cards). I couldn't manage to make these appear and then disappear after a winner of the hand was determined.

Overall I'm pretty pleased with how much I was able to do this week, I would not have been able to do this just three weeks ago and it's incredible how much I've learned. Thank you to Todd, Hanna, Charlie, Joe, Biren, An, Abi, Kaylie and Kristyn for looking at my code with me and sometimes being as dumbfounded as I am as well as for helping me console log everything and test my game.



images for cards thanks to @hayeah repo for cards can be found at https://github.com/hayeah/playing-cards-assets


play the game https://emilycali.github.io/WDIR-Project-1-WAR/
